What's your opinion about lifelong learning?
"Intellectual growth should commence at birth and cease only at death," Nobel Laureate Albert Einstein reminded us about our altitude of learning. Lifelong learning, the ongoing, voluntary, and self-motivated pursuit of knowledge, is indeed rewarding, not only for our personal development, but also for social progress and economic vibrancy. Although this process of acquiring knowledge in our daily life seems to be a long-lasting investment whose return is almost intangible and imperceptible in the short term, I strongly contend that everyone should adopt an attitude of lifelong learning to reap its long-term benefits.

Lifelong learning has paramount importance as one need to constantly absorb new knowledge and concept to keep up with the ever-evolving world of technology. Living in this era where the ongoing Fourth Industrial Revolution is reshaping the world with mind-boggling scientific discoveries and astonishing technologies, we need to keep a open mind to new ideas and innovations and even utilise them to enhance our life. For example, more and more people has recognised the benefits of computer automation and volunteered themselves in studying programming in their free time. This acquiring of programming skills opens one up for better job opportunities, higher efficiency of work or maybe a simpler life! In contrast, should one arrogantly find his current deposit of knowledge and skills eternally sufficient and neglect information techonology, he will soon find it difficult to adopt to cutting-edge knowledge in his workplace and his everyday life, and eventually become unemployable and abandoned by the fast-paced society. Therefore, forming a good habit of lifelong learning will open up more opportunities for us apart from being more knowledgable.

On a larger scale, lifelong learning is also imperative to the society and economy. Governments are promoting lifelong learning partly in response to a series of well-established policy concerning over competitiveness, innovation and growth. In addition, lifelong has a potentially important role to play in the shift towards a knowledge economy. Take the SkillsFuture Scheme introduced by Singapore government as an illustration. SkillsFuture scheme subsidies employees who intends to upgrade existing skills or master new knowledge so that they can attend relevant courses hazzle-free. By collectively improving the skills of Singaporeans, Singapore can safely and smoothly eliminate mostly its low-end manufacturing industries and replace with high-end service and research business smoothly without the fear of massive structural unemployment. By learning as we age, we not only can reap personal benefit, but also promote economic vibrancy and social cohesion.

Some antagonists against lifelong learning often poses questions on whether lifelong learning is a habit worthwhile picking up by individuals and societies. They raises the concern that lifelong learning requires accumulation of knowledge over a relatively long period, and the accumulation seems rather fruitless in the short term especially when knowledge learnt by individuals is not widely applicable and the process of learning is not as systematic as any educatiion institution can offer. Furthermore, as time progresses, some of our knowledge picked up will soon become obsolete again and therefore the efforts made in lifelong learning will probably be largely wasted. However, we must recognise that these viewpoints are not only myopic but also logically unsound. Clearly, apart from picking up pure knowledge and skills, by immersing ourselves in the wisdom of other people, we can develop critical thinking skills and train our own problem solving skills. These skills and thinking patterns are invaluable and imperishable, as opposed to what these parochial minds have claimed. Furthermore, the accumulation of knowledge and skills will come in handy when you face interdisciplinary problems. Rather than not knowing even how to start, one who adopt lifelong learning will have a broader horizon and most likely have an rough idea in approaching the problem thanks to his or her rich depository of knowledge. Hence, lifelong learning should be adopted due to its rich returns from not so expensive investments each day.  

All in all, lifelong learning is not an easy feat and people may requires determination and encourangement to sustain this learning process. However, we must remind ourselves the vast benefits of lifelong learning, being it crucial for personal development or societal progress, so that we can put this good habit to our use. 